Added docs about container resource metric source for HPA (#23523)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale.md

usual.
{{< /note >}}

## Support for resource metrics

Any HPA target can be scaled based on the resource usage of the pods in the scaling target.
When definining the pod specification the resource requests like `cpu` and `memory` should
be specified. This is used to determine the resource utilization and used by the HPA controller
to scale the target up or down. To use resource utilzation based scaling specify a metric source
like this:

```yaml
type: Resource
resource:
  name: cpu
  target:
    type: Utilization
    averageUtilization: 60
```
With this metric the HPA controller will keep the average utilization of the pods in the scaling

> target at 60%. Utilization is the ratio between the current usage of resource to the requested

Reviewer: This is a bit confusing.

- Does this mean the average CPU utilization of all Pods has to be exactly 60%, or else the HPA will start scaling the target?
- Does this mean the average CPU utilization of all containers in a single Pod rather than the average across all Pods?

Author: There is a tolerance factor which is passed as a flag to the controller. So yes, the utilization has to be ~60% and the HPA controller scales the replicas to keep in within that range. I've updated the docs with a link to the algorithm details.

When definining the pod specification the resource requests like `cpu` and `memory` should
be specified. This is used to determine the resource utilization and used by the HPA controller
to scale the target up or down. To use resource utilization based scaling specify a metric source
like this:

```yaml
type: Resource
resource:
  name: cpu
  target:
    type: Utilization
    averageUtilization: 60
```
With this metric the HPA controller will keep the average utilization of the pods in the scaling
target at 60%. Utilization is the ratio between the current usage of resource to the requested
resources of the pod. See [Algorithm](#algorithm-details) for more details about how the utilization
is calculated and averaged.

{{< note >}}
Since the resource usages of all the containers are summed up the total pod utilization may not
accurately represent the individual container resource usage. This could lead to situations where
a single container might be running with high usage and the HPA will not scale out because the overall
pod usage is still within acceptable limits.
{{< /note >}}

### Container Resource Metrics

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.20" state="alpha" >}}

> The HPA spec also supports a container metric source where the HPA can use the resource usage of
> individual containers to scale the target. The advantage of this approach is that different containers
> in the pod could use different scaling thresholds. However when a new container is added to the pod
> specification the HPA needs to be updated if the newly added container should also be used for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`HorizontalPodAutoscaler` also supports a container metric source where the HPA can track the
resource usage of individual containers across a set of Pods, in order to scale the target resource.
This lets you configure scaling thresholds for the containers that matter most in a particular Pod.
For example, if you have a web application and a logging sidecar, you can scale based on the resource
use of the web application, ignoring the sidecar container and its resource use.

If you revise the target resource to have a new Pod specification with a different set of containers,
you should revise the HPA spec if that newly added container should also be used for
```

scaling. If the specified container in the metric source is not present or only present in a subset
of the pods then those pods are ignored and the recommendation is recalculated. See [Algorithm](#algorithm-details)
for more details about the calculation. To use container resources for autoscaling define a metric
source as follows:
```yaml
type: ContainerResource
containerResource:
  name: cpu
  container: application
  target:
    type: Utilization
    averageUtilization: 60
```

> In the above example the HPA controller scale the target such that the average utilization of the cpu

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the above example the HPA controller scales the target such that the average utilization of the cpu
```

in the `application` container of all the pods is 60%.

{{< note >}}

> In case the name of a container targetted by an HPA has to be changed,it is recommended that before

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In case the name of a container targetted by an HPA has to be changed, it is recommended that before
```

the deployment the HPA is updated to have both the new and old container names. This way HPA will always
be able to able to calculate a recommendation for the scaling target. Once the rollout is done the old

> container name can be dropped.

Reviewer 3: nit: Worth clarifying where the old container name can be dropped from here,  i.e. from the HPA?

> In case the name of a container targetted by an HPA has to be changed, it is recommended that before
> the deployment the HPA is updated to have both the new and old container names. This way HPA will always
> be able to able to calculate a recommendation for the scaling target. Once the rollout is done the old
> container name can be dropped from the HPA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you change the name of a container that a HorizontalPodAutoscaler is tracking, you can
make that change in a specific order to ensure scaling remains available and effective
whilst the change is being applied. Before you update the resource that defines the container
(such as a Deployment), you should update the associated HPA to track both the new and
old container names. This way, the HPA is able to calculate a scaling recommendation
throughout the update process.

Once you have rolled out the container name change to the workload resource, tidy up by removing
the old container name from the HPA specification.
```
